The discussion and debate around the gradual conversion of existing code to a new "profiles" system or the adoption of Rust
required to examine the following key points and arguments from Stroustrup's perspective.

One of the major arguments for the new profile system is the existing large legacy code bases that are written in C++.
(Major composition of the modern-day tech infrastructure). Implementing a profile system significantly reduces the cost
and effort (you don't need to translate the whole database into another language) and is more practical. (Also respective the investment
of effort and learning of programmers toward C++, and avoid the need of time investment to learn the feature and system
of Rust, by providing safety guidelines in new profile system compared to enforce most of the safety in Rust, it requires the programmers
to consider and plan the safety of the software carefully, allowing them to understand the safety code practices concepts better.)
Interoperating or translating C++ code to Rust also faces technical challenges, where certain features can not be implemented
or implemented efficiently in Rust from C++.

Also, the new profile system mitigates the risks and dangers of coding in C++ code while maintaining its power of efficiency and
flexibility in manipulating unsafe code. Although this static analysis can only ensure the safety of the program to a certain
extent, it provides flexibility between the safety concerns of the program as well as the efficiency of the program.
(Since the profile system requires less comprehensive static check, it is more efficient to compile and check compared to Rust)

On the other hand, Rust offers safety measures on a broad scope of potential errors covered by Stroustrup's perspective, including
but not limited to memory safety, concurrency, and error handling(detected at complile time). Such features of Rust can offer
higher safety insurance compared to the new profile system based on C++, which still has various inherent problems related to
memory and concurrency inherent within the language of C++.

Although the learning and adaptation of Rust might be a steep curve, the initial investment would ensure that the code base is
more robust and significantly less prone to error in the long term compared to C++. (Since there are fewer legacy issues
inherently within the language), reduce time efforts spent on testing and fixing errors. Also, Stroustrup states that "A lot
of the so-called 'safe' languages outsource all the low-level stuff to C or C++"
but in this case, Rust does not outsource its low-level computations and programming to C or C++, which avoids the inherent unsafety
of C or C++.

The statement "This idea of just building a new system over on the side, without any of the problems of the old one, is a
fantasy. But it's a very popular fantasy." proposed by Stroustrup is only true to a certain extent. Although Rust may not solve
all problems within C++, it provides a more robust and safer environment that solves some major safety issues
in C++ (Such as memory error and concurrency management).

In addtion, there is a significant momentum in growing community of Rust, where significant portion of industry code are
written in Rust (such as code for quant trading firm). Such rapidly developing ecosystem can propell rust to push new feature
and iterate on the currectn design, which makes Rust more robust and flexible in the future.

Hence, from these key points, the new "profile" system is more suited for large existing code bases written in C++,
which would not be practical to translate into Rust due to its immense cost and complexity. (Offer an additional layer of safety
without disrupting the current flow of the ecosystem). In a new or minimal project, Rust is a compelling choice that
provides a more comprehensive, safe measure of the code over the long term and reduces potential maintenance in the long run.

In conclusion, the new profile system is a compelling alternative to Rust in large code bases, or project requiring balance
between safety and performance, but Rust is a more holistic solution when building a new project with safety as a core principle.

